lesson-2.3/activities.md, before:

# 🧪 Activity 1: Let's start to read the data

1. Open `app.py` and use GitHub Copilot to generate initial code by entering (try with Ctrl-I to open chat pallete vs. chat): 

```
i have weather data in a csv, can you load it for me and help me analyze
```

2. Review the generated code, run it in the terminal

```
cd lesson-2.3
python app.py
```

3. Notice the first two rows are header data, skip the first row by updating the read as needed, note the column names. 
```
skip the first row
```
# 🧪 Activity 2: Review/Clean the Raw Data

Before using the CSV, students can practice:
1. Inspecting the raw file, Notice the Date is not of type date, it looks like a generic number

```
Date column should be converted to datetime with the format mm/dd/yyyy
```

2. Any missing or malformed data
```
check for missing values
```

3. Renaming columns for clarity
```
rename the tMax column to Temperature Max
do the same for tMin, tAvg, tMax, pressureAvg, pressureMin, precipitationTotal
```

4. Drop data that is not needed for analysis
```
delete dewMax, dewMin, dewAvg columns
```

5. Saving the cleaned version as a CSV
```
Save the cleaned DataFrame to a new CSV file
```

# 🧪 Activity 3: Visualize the updated data
1. Display raw data
```
display raw data using streamlit library, allowing users to scroll through the data with page by page controls
```

correct page controls if needed, e.g.
```
remove page controls from sidebar, and place with the data table
```
2. What are temperature highs and lows by month
```
how would i show the hottest and coldest days by month
```

3. Draw a line chart comparing the 3 temperatures
```
generate a line chart with a line for Min Temperature, Max Temperature, and Avg Temperature
```

4. What days are walkable?

```
based on this data, what do you think would be the best days to go for a walk, list the days in the app
```

5. Walkable by month?

```
over the course of this year, what percentage of days were walkable by month, display in pie chart for each month
```
6. Any other graphs? 

```
what graphs do you suggest for this data to show trends or make predications
```

7. Select and implement one of the methods suggested, will the graph make sense to your users?discuss usefulness (e.g. correlation one)

# 🧪 Activity 4: Reflect
- Are there other data sets or domains you'd be interested in to analyze? 
- Could you use this in your hackathon project to look at metrics?

# 🧪 Activity 5: Review learn module homework (uses jupyter notebooks)

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/plans/mq33s7t761kx1n?sharingId=F67AE3DA365A6582

Commit message:

Enhance Activity 4: Add clarification for displaying walkable days by month in separate tabs

lesson-2.3/activities.md, after:

# 🧪 Activity 1: Let's start to read the data

1. Open `app.py` and use GitHub Copilot to generate initial code by entering (try with Ctrl-I to open chat pallete vs. chat): 

```
i have weather data in a csv, can you load it for me and help me analyze
```

2. Review the generated code, run it in the terminal

```
cd lesson-2.3
python app.py
```

3. Notice the first two rows are header data, skip the first row by updating the read as needed, note the column names. 
```
skip the first row
```
# 🧪 Activity 2: Review/Clean the Raw Data

Before using the CSV, students can practice:
1. Inspecting the raw file, Notice the Date is not of type date, it looks like a generic number

```
Date column should be converted to datetime with the format mm/dd/yyyy
```

2. Any missing or malformed data
```
check for missing values
```

3. Renaming columns for clarity
```
rename the tMax column to Temperature Max
do the same for tMin, tAvg, tMax, pressureAvg, pressureMin, precipitationTotal
```

4. Drop data that is not needed for analysis
```
delete dewMax, dewMin, dewAvg columns
```

5. Saving the cleaned version as a CSV
```
Save the cleaned DataFrame to a new CSV file
```

# 🧪 Activity 3: Visualize the updated data
1. Display raw data
```
display raw data using streamlit library, allowing users to scroll through the data with page by page controls
```

correct page controls if needed, e.g.
```
remove page controls from sidebar, and place with the data table
```
2. What are temperature highs and lows by month
```
how would i show the hottest and coldest days by month
```

3. Draw a line chart comparing the 3 temperatures
```
generate a line chart with a line for Min Temperature, Max Temperature, and Avg Temperature
```

4. What days are walkable?

```
based on this data, what do you think would be the best days to go for a walk, list the days in the app
```

5. Walkable by month?

```
over the course of this year, what percentage of days were walkable by month, display in pie chart for each month
```

correct if needed, e.g.:
```
show each month on a separate tab with the month name
 ```
6. Any other graphs? 

```
what graphs do you suggest for this data to show trends or make predications
```

7. Select and implement one of the methods suggested, will the graph make sense to your users?discuss usefulness (e.g. correlation one)

# 🧪 Activity 4: Reflect
- Are there other data sets or domains you'd be interested in to analyze? 
- Could you use this in your hackathon project to look at metrics?

# 🧪 Activity 5: Review learn module homework (uses jupyter notebooks)

https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/plans/mq33s7t761kx1n?sharingId=F67AE3DA365A6582
